My first sea journey Before I begin my story, I would like to tell you a littleabout myself.
 I was born in the year 1632, in the city of York in thenorth of England.
 My father was German, but he cameto live and work in England.
 Soon after that, he marriedmy mother, who was English.
 Her family name was Robinson, so, when I was born, they cailed me Robinson,after her.
 My father did well in his business and I went to a goodschool.
 He wanted me to get a good job and live a quiet, comfortable life.
 But IdIdn't want that.
 I wanted adventure andan exciting life.
I wanted adventure and an exciting life.
 My first sea journey 'I want to be a sailor and go to sea,' I told my motherand father.
 They were very unhappy about this.'Please don't go,' my father said.
 'You won't behappy, you know.
 Sailors have a difficult and dangerouslife.
' And because I loved him, and he was unhappy, Itried to forget about the sea.
 But I couldn't forget, and about a year later, I saw afriend in town.
 His father had a ship, and my friend saidto me, 'We're sailing to London tomorrow.
 Why don't you come with us?' And so, on September 1st, 1651, I went to Hull, andthe next day we sailed for London.
But, a few days later, there was a strong wind.
 The sea was rough and dangerous, and the ship went up anddown, up and down.
 I was very ill, and very afraid.The sea was rough and dangerous.
'Oh, I don't want to die!' I cried.
 'I want to live! If I live, I'll go home and never go to sea again!' The next day the wind dropped, and the sea was quietand beautiful again.
'Well, Bob,' my friend laughed.
 'How do you feelnow? The wind wasn't too bad.
''What!' I cried.
 'It was a terrible storm.''Oh, that wasn't a storm,' my friend answered.
 'Just alittle wind.
 Forget it. Come and have a drink.'After a few drinks with my friend, I felt better.
 I forgotabout the danger and decided not to go home.
 I didn't want my friends and family to laugh at me! I stayed in London for some time, but I still wanted togo to sea.
 So, when the captain of a ship asked me to gowith him to Guinea in Africa, I agreed.
 And so I went tosea for the second time.
 It was a good ship and everything went well at first,but I was very ill again.
 Then, when we were near theCanary Islands, a Turkish pirate ship came after us.
They were famous thieves of the sea at that time.
 There was a long, hard fight, but when it finished, we and theship were prisoners.
 The Turkish captain and his men took us to Sallee inMorocco.
 They wanted to sell us as slaves in the marketsthere.
 But in the end the Turkish captain decided to keepme for himself, and took me home with him.
 This was a ~sudden and terrible change in my life.
 I was now a slaveand this Turkish captain was my master.
 Down the coast of AfricaFor two long years I lived the life of a slave.
 I worked in the house and the garden, and every day I planned toescape, but it was never possible.
 I thought about it dayand night.
 My master liked to go fishing in a little boat,and he always took me with him.
 A man called Moely,-and a young boy also went with us.
 One day my master said to us, 'Some of my friendswant to go fishing tomorrow.
 Get the boat ready.' So we put a lot of food and drink on the boat, and thenext morning, we waited for my master and his friends.
But when my master arrived, he was alone.
 'My friends don,'t want to go fishing today,' he said tome.
 'But you go with Moely and the boy, and catch somefish for our supper tonight.
' 'Yes, master,' I answered quietly, but inside I wasexcited.
 'Perhaps now I can escape,' I said to myself. My master went back to his friends and we took the,boat out to sea.
 For a time we fished quietly, and then I moved carefully behind Moely and knocked him into thewater.
 'Swim!' I cried. 'Swim to the shore!' My master liked to shoot seabirds and so there wereguns on the boat.
 Quickly, I took one of these guns. Moely was swimming after the boat and I shouted to him: Down the coast ofAfrica Then I said to the boy, 'Xury, if you help me, I'll be agood friend to you.
 If you don't help me, I'll push youinto the sea too.
'But Xury was happy to help me.
 'I'll go all over theworld with you,' he cried.
 I wanted to sail to the Canary Islands, but I was afraidto go too far from the shore.
 It was only a small boat.And so we sailed on south for some days.
 We had very little water, and it was dangerous country here, withmany wild animals.
 We were afraid, but we often had togo on shore to get more water.
 Once I used a gun to shoota wild animal.
 I don't know what animal it was, but itmade a good meal.
 For about ten or twelve days we sailed on south, downthe coast of Africa.
 Then one day we saw some people on the shore - strange, wild people, who did not lookfriendly.
 By now we had v~ry little food, and we reallyneeded help.
 We were afraid, but we had to go on shore.At first, they were afraid of us, too.
 Perhaps whitepeople never visited this coast.
 We did not speak their language, of course, so we used our hands and faces toshow that we were hungry.
 They came with food for us,but then they moved away quickly.
 We carried the foodto our boat, and they watched us.
 I tried to thank them,but I had nothing to give them.
 Just then two big wild cats came down to the shore ~ Down the coast ofAfrica ,* ,'\'\~'"~'\:\,.
. '\,.
/. -~~/~ -"~{"\ ,If".
 I#'r'>; " ~,.
 i'("'1~ _ -U...... ~"~,.
'," ~A>-'~~" ''i:~' ".-") 11u,,~'2"..,,~ ~ ;
r;"-',,, 3..7, fJ/;J ~ , ..,.. '1/4 """, ''I !fJ'fl""",I<"~,~ru.
.. " .,..,;,.. ~~A# 1/''';
:t.1~ Of, '4,~ \~./C'>;
{.>;;-~'-~,*~I!fl~;:;,,,", "-;;_:%;-;""~';;5£4'~.1W,;bfl/l'" C,~,l.
<:;-;:~~'r~~',~d0/~~~;;~//~j!?I////C"':~'>,;
;:)~I think they were leopards.
from the mountains.
 I think they were leopards. The people were afraid of these wild cats, and the womencried out.
 Quickly, I took a gun, and shot one of theanimals.
 The second wild cat ran back up into themountains.
 Guns were new to these African people, and they wereafraid of the loud noise and the smoke.
 But they werehappy about the dead wild cat.
 I gave them the meat ofthe dead animal, and they gave us more food and water.
We now had a lot of food and water, and we sailed on.
Eleven days later we came near the Cape Verde Islands.
 We could see them, but we couldn't get near becausethere was no wind.
 We waited. Suddenly Xury called to me, 'Look, a ship!' He was right! We called and shouted and sailed ourlittle boat as fast as we could.
 But the ship did not see us.Then I remembered the guns which made a lot of smoke.
A few minutes later the ship saw us and turned.
 When we were on the ship, the Portuguese captainlistened to my story.
 He was going to Brazil and agreedto help me, but he wanted nothing for his help.
 'No,' heThen I remembered the guns which made a lot ofsmoke.
 The storm and the shipwrecksaid, when I tried to pay him.
 'Perhaps, one day, someonewill help me when I need it.
'But he gave me money for my boat, and for Xury, too.
 At first, I did not want to sell Xury as a slave, after all ourdangerous adventures together.
 But Xury was happy togo to the captain, and the captain was a good man.
 'Inten years' time,' he said, 'Xury can go free.
' When we arrived in Brazil three weeks later, I said goodbye to the captain and Xury, left the ship, and wentto begin a new life.
 The storm and the shipwreckI stayed in Brazil and worked hard for some years.
 Bythen I was rich .
.. but also bored. One day some friends came to me and said, 'We're going to Africa to dobusiness.
 Why don't you come with us? We'll all be rich after this journey!' How stupid I was! I had an easy, comfortable life inBrazil, but, of course, I agreed.
 And so, in 1659, I went tosea agam.
 At first, all went well, but then there was a terriblestorm.
 For twelve days the wind and the rain didn't stop. We lost three men in the sea, and soon the ship had holesin its sides.
 'We're all going to die this time,' I said to Half an hour later the angry sea turned our boat overand we were all in the water.
 I looked round for myfriends, but I could see nobody.
 I was alone.One ofthe sailors saw land.
 rough and our little boat could not live for long in thatwild water.
 A new life on an islandWhen day came, the sea was quiet again.
 I looked for our hip and, to my surprise, it was still there and still in onepiece.
 'I think I can swim to it,' I said to myself. So I walked down to the sea and before long, I was at the shipnd was swimming round it.
 But how could I get on to it? In the end, I got in through a hole in the side, but it wasn'tI fell r;
m the wet sand. That day I was lucky, and the sea carried me to theshore.
 I could not see the land, only mountains of waterall around me.
 Then, suddenly, I felt the ground undermy feet.
 Another mountain of water came, pushed me upthe beach, and I fell on the wet sand.
At first I was very thankful to be alive.
 Slowly, I got tomy feet and went higher up the shore.
 From there, Ilooked out to sea.
 I could see our ship, but it was wreckedand there was nobody near it.
 There was nobody in thewater.
 All my friends were dead. I was alive, but in a strange wild country, with no food, no water, and noIt was dark now and I was tired.
 I was afraid to sleepon the shore.
 Perhaps there were wild animals there. So Iwent up into a tree and I stayed there all night.
 There was a lot of water in the ship, but the sand underthe sea was still holding the ship in one place.
 The back of the ship was high out of the water, and I was verythankful for this because all the ship's food was there.
 Iwas very hungry so I begaJll to eat something at once.
 Then I decided to take orne of it back to thehore with me.
 But how ould I get it there? I looked around the hip, and after a few minutes, I found somelong pieces of wood.
 I tied them together withrope.
 Then I got the I tied the pieces ofwood things that I wantedtogether with rope.
from the ship.
 There was a big box of food - rice, and salted meat, and hard ship'sbread.
 I also took many strong knives and other tools, theI took many tools.
 ship's sails and ropes, paper, pens, books, and sevenguns.
 Now I needed a little sail from the ship, and then Iwas ready.
 Slowly and carefully, I went back to theshore.
 It was difficult to stop my things from falling intothe sea, but in the end I got everything on to the shore.
Now I needed somewhere to keep my things.
 There were some hills around me, so I decided to buildmyself a little house on one of them.
 I walked to the topof the highest hill and looked down.
 I was very unhappy,because I saw then that I was on an island.
 There were two smaller islands a few miles away, and after that, onlythe sea.
 Just the sea, for mile after mile after mile.After a time, I found a little cave in the side of a hill.
 Infront of it, there was a good place to make a home.
 So, I used the ship's sails, rope, and pieces of wood, and aftera lot of hard work I had a very fine tent.
 The cave at the back of my tent was a good place to keep my food, and soI called it my 'kitchen'.
 That night, I went to sleep in mynew home.
 A new life on an island The next day I thought about the possible dangers onhe island.
 Were there wild animals, and perhaps wild ople too, on my island? I didn't know, but I was veryfraid.
 So I decided to build a very strong fence. I cutown young trees and put them in the ground, in a halfircle around the front of my tent.
 I used many of the hip's ropes too, and in the end my fence was as strong asstone wall.
 Nobody could get over it, through it, orround it.
Making tents and building fences is hard work.
 Ineeded many tools to help me.
 So I decided to go back tohe ship again, and get some more things.
 I went back twelve times, but soon after my twelfth Learning to live alonevisit there was another terrible storm.
 The next morning,when I looked out to sea, there was no ship.
When I saw that, I was very unhappy.
 'Why am I alive,and why are all my friends dead?' I asked myself.
 'What will happen to me now, alone on this island without friends? How can I ever escape from it?' Then I told myself that I was lucky -lucky to be alive, lucky to have food and tools, lucky to be young andstrong.
 But I knew that my island was somewhere off thecoast of South America.
 Ships did not often come down this coast, and I said to myself, 'I'm going to be on thisisland for a long time.
' So, on a long piece of wood, I cut these words:laces to put all my food, and all my tools and guns.
 But very time I wanted a piece of wood, I had to cut down ar e.
 It was long, slow, difficult work, and during then xt months I learnt to be very clever with my tools.
here was no hurry.
 I had all the time in the world. I also went out every day, and I always had my gunwith me.
 Sometimes I killed a wild animal, and then I hadm at to eat.
 But when it got dark, I had to go to bed because I hadno light.
 I couldn't read or write because I couldn't see.'or a long time, I didn't know what to do.
 But in the end, I JearntilOw to use the fat of dead animals to make a The weather on my island was usually very hot, andthere were often storms and heavy rain.
 The next June, it r ined all the time, and I couldn't go out veryoften.
 I was also ill for orne weeks, butlowly, I got better.
 ~ When I was stronger, Ibegan to go out again.
 he first time I killed a wild animal, and thesecond time I caught a ,.
big turtle.
I caught a big turtle.
 I CAME HERE ON 30TH SEPTEMBER 1659After that, I decided to make a cut for each day.
.
,. r.'"' Learning to live aloneI still needed a lot of things.
 'Well,' I said, 'I'm going tohave to make them.
' So, every day, I worked.First of all, I wanted to make my cave bigger.
 I carried out stone from the cave, and after many days' hard workI had a large cave in the side of the hill.
 Then I needed atable and a chair, and that was my next job.
 I had towork on them for a long time.
 I also wanted to make Learning to live alone I was on the island for ten months before I visitedother parts of it.
 During those months I worked hard onmy cave and my house and my fence.
 Now I was ready tofind out more about the rest of the island.
First, I walked along the side of a little river.
 There, Ifound open ground without trees.
 Later, I came to moretrees with many different fruits.
 I decided to take a lot ofthe fruit, and to put it to dry in the sun for a time.
 Then Icould keep it for many months.
 That night I went to sleep in a tree for the second time,and the next day I went on with my journey.
 Soon I cameto an opening in the hills.
 In front of me, everything wasgreen, and there were flowers everywhere.
 There werealso a lot of different birds and animals.
 I saw that myhouse was on the worst side of the island.
 But I didn'twant to move from there.
 It was my home now. I stayedaway for three days, and then I came home.
 But I oftenwent back to the other, greener side of the island.
And so my life went on.
 Every month I learnt to do orto make something new.
 But I had troubles and accidentstoo.
 Once there was a terrible storm with very heavyrain.
 The roof of my cave fell in, and nearly killed me! Ihad to build it up again with many pieces of wood.
I had a lot of food now.
 I cooked it over a fire or driedit in the sun.
 So I always had meat during the rainymonths when I could not go out with a gun.
 I learnt tomake pots to keep my food in.
 ut I wanted very much to make harder, stronger pot - a pothat would not break in a fire.
 I ried many times, but I couldot do it.
 Then one day I waslucky.
 I made some new potsnd put them in a very hot fire.
 My first pot hey changed colour, but didot break.
 I left them there for many hours, and when hey were cold again, I found that they were hard andtrong.
 That night I was very happy. I had hot water forhe first time on the island.
By then, I also had my own bread.
 That was luck, too.ne day I found a little bag.
 We used it on the ship, tokeep the chickens' food in.
 There was still some of the food in the bag, and I dropped some of it;
) onto the ground. A month later ",' I saw something bright green.
:~ there, and after six months I hada very small field of corn.
 I was1/ i~ very excited.
 Perhaps now I ,( could make my own bread! It was easy to say, but not soeasy to do.
 It is a lot of work to Learning to live alonemake bread from corn.
 Many people eat bread, but how many people can take corn from a field and make bread out of it without help? I had to learn and to make many new things, and it was a year before I cooked and ate myfirst bread.
 During all this time I never stopped thinking aboutescape.
 When I travelled across to the other side of the island, I could see the other islands, and I said to myself,'Perhaps I can get there with a boat.
 Perhaps I can getback to England one day.
'So I decided to make myself a boat.
 I cut down a bigtree, and then began to make a long hole in it.
 It was hardwork, but about six months later, I had a very fine canoe.
Next, I had to get it down to the sea.
 How stupid I was! Why didn't I think before I began work? Of course, theanoe was too heavy.
 I couldn't move it! I pulled andushed and tried everything, but it didn't move.
 I wasv ry unhappy for a long time after that.
That happened in my fourth year on the island.
 In my ixth year I did make myself a smaller canoe, but I did notry to escape in it.
 The boat was too small for a longj umey, and I did not want to die at sea.
 The island was y home now, not my prison, and I was just happy to belive.
 A year or two later, I made myself a second canoen the other side of the island.
 I also built myself a secondouse there, and so I had two homes.
My life was still busy from morning to night.
 Therewere always things to do or to make.
 I learnt to makenew clothes for myself from the skins of dead animals.
 They looked very strange, it is true, but they kept me dryin the rain.
 I kept food and tools at both my houses, and also wildgoats.
 There were many goats on the island, and I madefields with high fences to keep them in.
 They learnt to take food from me, and soon I had goat's milk to drinkevery day.
 I also worked hard in my cornfields. And somany years went by.
Soon I had goat's milk to drink.
 A footprinthen, one year, something strange and terrible happened.
 I often walked along the shore, and one day I sawomething in the sand.
 I went over to look at it more refully, and stopped inudden surprise.
 It was a footprint - the otprint of a man! Who could this be? Afraid, I looked aroundme.
 I listened. I waited.Nothing.
 I was more and It was a footprint!more afraid.
 Perhaps this man was one of those wild people who killed and ate ther men! I looked everywhere, but there was nobody,nd no other footprint.
 I turned and hurried home.'There's someone on my island,' I said to myself.
 'Perhaps he knows about me Perhaps he's watching me now from behind a treePerhaps he wants to kill me.
'That night I couldn't sleep.
 The next day I got all my guns ready and I put more wood and young trees aroundmy house.
 Nobody could see me now. But, after fifteen years alone on the island, I was afraid, and I did not leavemy cave for three days.
 A footprintIn the end, I had to go out to milk my goats.
 But fortwo years I was afraid.
 I stayed near my home and I neverused my guns because I didn't want to make a noise.
 I could not forget the footprint, but I saw and heardnothing more, and slowly I began to feel happier.
 One day, a year later, I was over on the west side of theisland.
 From there I could see the other islands, and Icould also see a boat, far out to sea.
 'If you have a boat,'I thought, 'it's easy to sail across to this island.
 Perhaps that explains the footprint - it was a visitor from one ofthe other islands.
' I began to move more freely around the island again,and built myself a third house.
 It was a very secret placein a cave.
 'No wild man will ever find that,' I said to Then one year something happened which I can neverforget.
 I was again on the west side of the island and waswalking along the shore.
 Suddenly, I saw somethingwhich made me feel ill.
 There were heads, arms, feet, andother pieces of men's bodies everywhere.
 For a minute, Icouldn't think, and then I understood.
 Sometimes therewere fights between the wild men on the other islands.
 Then they came here to my island with their prisoners, tokill them, cook them, and eat them.
 Slowly, I went home,but I was ve~y angry.
 How could men do this? For many months I watched carefully for the smokefrom fires, but I didn't see anything.
 Somehow the wildmen came and went, and I never saw them.
 I was angrynd afraid.
 I wanted to shoot them all, but there weremany of them and only one of me.
 'Perhaps I can shoot two or three,' I said to myself, 'but then they will kill and Then, one morning in my twenty-third year on the island, I was out in my fields and I saw the smoke from areo Quickly, I went up the hill to watch.
 There were nine men around the fire, and they were'ooking their terrible food.
 Then these wild men dancedound the fire, singing and shouting.
 This went on for ,~Ii:f~f"A " ~The wild men danced round the fire, singing and shouting.
 Man Friday about two hours, and then they got into their boats andsailed away.
 I went down to the shore and saw the bloodof the dead men on the sand.
 'The next time they come,I'm going to kill them,' I said angrily.
I wanted people, a friend, somebody to talk to .
..om body who could help me escape from my island.
n morning I woke up and made a plan.
 'I'll try to catchn of the prisoners of the wild men,' I said to myself.
 '11 be happy to be alive and perhaps he'll help me to·3 pe.
' I watched day and night, but for a year and a halfre were no boats.
Then one day five boats came.
 There were about thirtyn and they had two prisoners.
 They made their fire onsand and danced round it.
 Then they killed one of theri oners and began to cook their terrible meal.
 The 'ond prisoner waited under the trees, with two men totch him.
 Suddenly, the prisoner turned and ran. The wo men ran after him, but the other wild men were busyound the fire and did not see what was happening.
 The prisoner ran like a wild goat, and soon I saw thatwas coming near the bottom of my hill.
 As fast as I ould, I ran down the hill and jumped out of the treestween the prisoner and the two wild men.
 I hit the first· an with the wooden end of my gun and he fell down,ut I had to shoot the second man.
 The poor prisoner didnot move.
 He was afraid of the noise of my gun. I called to him and tried to show him that I wasriendly.
 Slowly, he moved nearer to me, but just then thefirst wild man began to get up from the ground.
 Then the prisoner spoke and I understood that he wanted my Man FridayFor two years I never went anywhere without my gun.
 Ifelt lonely and afraid, and had many sleepless nights.
 One night there was a very bad storm, and I thought Iheard the sound of guns out at sea.
 The next morning Ilooked out, and saw a ship.
 It was lying on its side not farfrom the shore.
 Quickly, I put my little boat in the waterand sailed out to it.
 There were two dead men on the ship, but noone alive.
 The bodies of the other sailors were lostin the sea.
 I took some clothes and tools, and also a box of Spanish gold andsilver money.
 I was a rich man now, but what use was money to me? I could '"not buy anything with it.
 What use was money to me? Man Fridaysword.
 How happy I was to hear words again! I gave himmy sword, and at once he cut off the head of his enemy.
 Hurriedly, we hid the dead bodies under some leaves,nd then left quickly.
 I took my prisoner to my secret ave on the other side of the island and gave him foodnd drink.
 After that, he went to sleep. He was a fine young man, about twenty-five years old,11 and well-built, with a kind face and a nice smile.
 He h d a brown skin, black hair, bright eyes and strongwhite teeth.
 I decided to give him the name of 'Manriday', because I first saw him on a Friday.
When he woke up in the morning, he ran out to me.
 I s milking my goats in the field, and he got down on theund and put his head near my foot.
 I understood that was thanking me, and I tried to show him that I wasi friend.
 I began to teach him to speak English, and soon heuld say his name, 'Master', and 'Yes' and 'No'.
 How od it was to hear an's voice again! L ter that day we nt back to mythouse.
 We went fully along the 'h, but there.
 no boats andwild men.
 Just ou and bones allThere were bones all over the sand.
r the sand.
 I felt Man Friday ill, but Friday wanted to eat the pieces of men's bodieswhich were still on the ground.
 1 showed him that thiswas terrible for me, and he understood.
 When we got to my house, 1 gave Man Friday sometrousers, and 1 made him a coat and a hat.
 He liked hisnew clothes very much.
 Then 1 made him a little tent to sleep in, but for a few weeks 1always took my gun to bedwith me.
 Perhaps Friday was still a wild man and wouldtry to kill me in the night.
 At first, Friday was very afraidof my gun.
 Sometimes he talked to it, and asked it not tokill him.
 Friday was a quick learner and his English got betterday by day.
 He helped me with the goats and with thework in the cornfields, and soon we were good friends.
 1 enjoyed teaching him and, most of all, having a friend totalk to.
 This was the happiest of all my years on the island.Friday and 1 lived together happily for three years.
 1 told him the story of my adventures and about life in England, and he told me about his country and hispeople.
 One day we were at the top of the highest. hill onthe island, and we were looking out to sea.
 It was a veryclear day and we could see a long way.
 Suddenly, Fridaybegan to jump up and down, very excited.
'What's the matter?' 1said.
'Look, Master, look!' Friday cried.
 'I can see mycountry.
 Look over there!' 1looked, and there to the north-west, between the seaand the sky, was a long thin piece of land.
 1learnt later that it was the island of Trinidad, and that my island was in the mouth of the River Orinoco on the north coast ofSouth America.
I began to think again about escape.
 Perhaps Fridaywanted to go home too.
 Perhaps together we could get tohis country.
 But what then? Would Friday still be my friend, or would his people kill me and eat me? I took Friday to the other side of the island andshowed him my big canoe.
 It still lay under the trees. Itwas very old now, and there were holes in the wood.
 'Could a boat like this sail to your country, Friday?' Iasked him.
'Oh yes,' he answered.
 'A boat like this can carry a lotof food and drink.
' 'Then we'll make another canoe like it, and you can gohome in it,' I said.
But Friday looked very unhappy.
 'Why are you angrywith me?' he asked.
 'What have I done? Why do you want to send me home?''But I thought you wanted to go home,' I said.
'Yes.
 But you must come with me. Kill me if you want, but don't send me away from you!' Then I saw that Friday was a true friend, and so Iagreed to go with him.
 We began work on the canoe atonce.
 Friday chose the tree himself - he understoodwood better than I did - and we cut it down.
 We workedhard and in a month the boat was finished.
 Two weeks later it was in the sea, and we began to get ready for ourlong journey.
 Escape from the island I was now in my twenty-seventh year on the island, andI did not want to be there for another year.
 We workedhard to get the corn in, and to make a lot of bread.
 We had dried fruit and salted meat, and big pots to keepwater in.
 One evening Friday went out to look for aturtle for meat and eggs.
 But in less than an hour he wasback, and he looked very afraid.
'Master! Master!' he cried.
 'There's a great ship near the island, and men are coming to the shore in a boat!' 'There's a great ship near the island!' Escape from the island1 jumped up and ran with him down to the shore.
 To my great surprise, 1saw that it was an English ship! Butwhy was it here? English ships never came this way.
 Perhaps they were pirates! 'Don't let them see you,Friday!' 1called.
 'We'll hide in the trees and watch.' There were eleven men in the boat, but three of themwere prisoners.
 Their arms were tied with rope, but theirlegs were free and they could walk.
 The other sailors pushed the three prisoners up the beach, laughing andshouting and hitting them.
 Then some of them sat downon the sand and began to drink.
 Others walked away tolook at the island, and two men stayed to watch the boat.
 The three prisoners walked slowly along the beach andsat down under a tree, not far from us.
 They looked very Very quietly, 1came up behind them through the trees,and called out to them in English.
'Don't be afraid,' 1said.
 'I'm an Englishman. Perhaps1can help you.
'The three men turned and looked at me.
 They did notanswer at once;
 they were too surprised. Perhaps they thought 1 was a wild man myself, in my strange homemade clothes of animals' skins, and with my long hairand beard.
 Then the oldest man spoke. 'I am the captain of that ship,' he said, 'and these twomen are my first and second officers.
 Last night there wasa mutiny, and the seamen took the ship from me.
 Now they're going to leave the three of us here, to die on this 'Do these mutineers have guns?' 'Only two,' he answered, 'and they've left those on the'All right,' 1said.
 'We'll fight them, but if we get yourship back for you, you must take me back to England.
' The captain agreed immediately and thanked me verywarmly for my help.
 Friday ran back to my house to getall the guns, and the captain and 1 made a plan.
 Perhaps they thought I was a wild man myself,with my long hair and beard.
 Escape from the island The first part was easy because the seamen were notready for a fight.
 We shot the two men at the boat, andthe captain shot another man.
 This man, Tom Smith, was the worst of them all and he began the mutiny on theship.
 Then the captain talked to the other five men, and.
 they agreed to help him. They did not really want to bemutineers, but they were afraid of Tom Smith.
 'Now,' I said to the captain, 'we must get back yourship.
 How many men are on it?' 'Twenty-six,' the captain replied, 'and they will fighthard because they won't want to go home.
 It is death forall mutineers in England.
 But not all the men are bad. I'msure that some of them will help me.
' Just then we saw another boat, which was comingfrom the ship to the shore.
 There were ten men in it, andthey all had guns.
 We ran into the trees and waited. It was a long hard fight, but by now it was dark andthis helped us very much.
 We ran here and there in thetrees, calling and shouting.
 The seamen could not see usand did not know how many men they were fighting.
 In the end the first officer shouted to them: 'Put down your guns and stop fighting! The captainhas fifty island people to help him.
 We can kill you all!' So the seamen stopped fighting and we took theirguns.
 Three of the men agreed to come back to thecaptain, and we put the others in my cave.
 Friday and IIt was a long hard fight.
 Home in England stayed to watch the prisoners, while the captain and hismen went back to fight for the ship.
 All night we listened to the sound ofguns and shouting, but in the morning, when the sun came up, the captainwas master of his ship again.
 I went down to the shore tomeet him.
'My dear friend,' he cried.
 'There's your ship! I'll take you to the ends of the world in it!' I put my arms round him, and we laughed and criedtogether.
 How happy I was to leave the island! My good friend Friday came with me, of course, butwe left the mutineers on the island.
 We decided not to killthem;
 they coul.d begin a new life on the island. I showed them my three houses, my cornfields and my goats, andall my tools.
 Their life would be easy because of all myhard work for so many years.
 And so, on the nineteenth of December 1686 - after twenty-seven years, two months and nineteen days - Isaid goodbye to my island and sailed home to England.
 Home in England'I'll take you to the ends ofthe worldI' cried the captain.
 When I came back to England, I felt like a stranger in thecountry.
 Many things were different, and not manypeople remembered me.
 I went home to Yark, but myfather and mother were dead, and also my two brothers.
I did find the two sons of one of my brothers.
 They were happy to learn that I was alive, and I was pleased to findsome family.
 After some months I decided to go down to Lisbon inPortugal.
 I had friends there who could help me to sellmy land in Brazil, and I needed the money.
 Friday camewith me.
 He was always a good and true friend to me. Home in England In Lisbon I found the Portuguese captain, who took mein his ship to Brazil, all those years ago.
 It was good to seehim again, and he helped me with my business.
 Soon I was ready to go homeagain - by land.
 No more adventures and dangers by sea for me! It was a long, hardjourney.
 We had to cross the mountains between Spain and France in winter, and the snow wasdeep.
 Poor Friday wasvery afraid of the snow.
 In his country it was always hot, and he didlike cold weather.
 Poor Friday was very afraid Back in England Iof the snow.
 found a house and beganto live a quiet life.
 My two nephews came to live with me. The younger one wanted to be a sailor, and so I foundhim a place on a ship.
 After a while I married, and hadthree children, two sons and a daughter.
 Then my wife died, and my nephew, who was now the captain of aship, came home to see me.
 He knew that I did not reallylike a quiet life.
'I have a fine ship, uncle,' he said.
 'I'm going out to theEast Indies - India, Malaya, the Philippines .
.. Why don't you come with me?''[ have a fine ship, uncle,' my nephew said.
 And so, in 1694, I went to sea again, and had manymore adventures.
 Perhaps one day I'll write anotherbook about them.
